My project is based on a data set of car collisions in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. I was interested in building models to predict whether a crash results in injury and which factors are most important in determining whether an  injury occurs.
The source of the dataset is from the Center for Analytics & Research in Transportation Safety (CARTS) at the Louisiana State University, while the information is collected by the Baton Rouge Police Department. The dataset includes traffic incident/crash reports that begin on September 1, 2022 and is updated weekly (I downloaded it on February 5th, 2024). It has records for all vehicular crashes that occurred within the City of Baton Rouge.
With the dataset, I ran into a problem with imbalance. The distribution of the “Injury” variable is highly skewed, with over three times as many entries for collisions that did not result in injuries than those that did. This had implications for the accuracy of my preliminary models since this variable is the response variable.
I approached this issue through bootstrapping the sample of observations that result in injury so that its sample size was equal to that of observations that do not result in injury. 
I was able to produce robust models, with acurracy score of 0.68 for KNN and 0.74 for Random Forest, while the baseline was 0.51, and had sensitivy and specifity values of around 0.75 and 0.68 for both models. 
My findings concluded that factors due to human error, such as unsafe or reckless driving, have more impact on the chance of injury than uncontrollable factors such as weather or lighting conditions. 
